apitest/README.md, before:

# Running API tests for Loginbuddy

Loginbuddy uses SOAPUI for testing APIs. I got stuck with SOAPUI for many years and, although the name may not indicate it, it is good at testing REST APIs, too.

SOAPUI (Open Source) can be downloaded [here](https://www.soapui.org/downloads/soapui.html).

To run the tests a few pre-requisites are required:

- Update the hosts file and add these entries (you may already have some of them configured)
  - *127.0.0.1 loginbuddy-sidecar loginbuddy-oidcdr local.loginbuddy.net democlient.loginbuddy.net demoserver.loginbuddy.net soapui.loginbuddy.net*
- Launch SOAPUI and update these preferences:
  - check *Preferences - HTTP Settings - Pre-Encoded Endpoints*

## Run tests

Next to this file there are three directories:

- **docker:** this contains a docker-compose file and configuration, used with the tests
- **scripts:** this was only used when adding support for *response_type=id_token*
- **soapui:** this contains SOAPUI project and properties files

To run tests follow these steps:

- launch the Loginbuddy test setup
  - ```$ cd ./docker```
  - ```$ docker-compose -f docker-compose-test.yml up```
- Launch SOAPUI
- Import the project files found at *./soapui/project*
- Double-click each project, select *TestSuites* and hit the green arrow
- Verify that everything is green
- You can also open the browser at *https://democlient.loginbuddy.net* for manual verifications. Not everything is automated yet!
- Done!

## Configure SOAPUI

Both SOAPUI projects are using properties instead of hard coded values. These can be found here:

```$ ./properties/template.properties```

If you want to use your own properties, simply copy that file and load them into SOAPUI for each project. 

## Known issues

- The SOAPUI project *Loginbuddy-Flows* has many duplicated test steps. This requires some effort to keep them in sync. When I get to it, I will do some refactoring
- Not everything is automated, but running the test indicates a high chance that most features are working as expected
- Manual verifications are required via the browser UI 

## Tips and tricks for using SOAPUI

Here are a few notes for using SOAPUI.

### Extract header from previous response and stick into variable

    //Find the 'Location' header of the response
    def location = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["test-step-name"].testRequest.response.responseHeaders["Location"][0]
    
    // Write the 'location' into the 'endpoint' of the testStep 'test-step-target'
    def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils( context )
    groovyUtils.setPropertyValue("test-step-target", "Endpoint", location.toString())
    
### Extract header from previous response and assert value

    //Find the 'Location' header of the response
    def location = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["test-step-name"].testRequest.response.responseHeaders["Location"][0]
    assert location.startsWith('value-to-assert');

### Extract header from current response

    // Find the 'Location' header of the response
    assert messageExchange.responseHeaders["Location"] != null

    def location = messageExchange.responseHeaders["Location"][0]

    // Check if all expected parameters are included in the redirect_uri
    assert(location.contains("client_id"));

### Access message body of current test step

    def bodyAsString = new String().valueOf(messageExchange.responseContent)

Commit message:

feature/config-update, getting the APIs going

apitest/README.md, after:

# Running API tests for Loginbuddy

Loginbuddy uses SOAPUI for testing APIs. I got stuck with SOAPUI for many years and, although the name may not indicate it, it is good at testing REST APIs, too.

SOAPUI (Open Source) can be downloaded [here](https://www.soapui.org/downloads/soapui.html).

To run the tests a few pre-requisites are required:

- Update the hosts file and add these entries (you may already have some of them configured)
  - *127.0.0.1 loginbuddy-sidecar loginbuddy-oidcdr local.loginbuddy.net democlient.loginbuddy.net demoserver.loginbuddy.net soapui.loginbuddy.net*
- Launch SOAPUI and update these preferences:
  - check *Preferences - HTTP Settings - Pre-Encoded Endpoints*

## Run tests

Next to this file there are three directories:

- **docker:** this contains a docker-compose file and configuration, used with the tests
- **scripts:** this was only used when adding support for *response_type=id_token*
- **soapui:** this contains SOAPUI project and properties files

To run tests follow these steps:

- launch the Loginbuddy test setup
  - ```$ cd ./docker```
  - ```$ docker-compose -f docker-compose-test.yml up```
- Launch SOAPUI
- Import the project files found at *./soapui/project*
- Double-click each project, select *TestSuites* and hit the green arrow
- Verify that everything is green
- You can also open the browser at *https://democlient.loginbuddy.net* for manual verifications. Not everything is automated yet!
- Done!

## Configure SOAPUI

Both SOAPUI projects are using properties instead of hard coded values. These can be found here:

```$ ./properties/template.properties```

If you want to use your own properties, simply copy that file and load them into SOAPUI for each project. 

## Custom Configuration Loader

This testsuite is using a custom loader for loading clients and providers. The custom loader has been implemented in the module net.loginbuddy.test.

To make sure the latest update of that class is used, run this command:

- `cd docker`
- `make prepare-test`

The class implementing the loader is configured here:

- file: `./docker/loginbuddy.properties`
- property: `config.loginbuddy.loader.default`

## Known issues

- The SOAPUI project *Loginbuddy-Flows* has many duplicated test steps. This requires some effort to keep them in sync. When I get to it, I will do some refactoring
- Not everything is automated, but running the test indicates a high chance that most features are working as expected
- Manual verifications are required via the browser UI 

## Tips and tricks for using SOAPUI

Here are a few notes for using SOAPUI.

### Extract header from previous response and stick into variable

    //Find the 'Location' header of the response
    def location = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["test-step-name"].testRequest.response.responseHeaders["Location"][0]
    
    // Write the 'location' into the 'endpoint' of the testStep 'test-step-target'
    def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils( context )
    groovyUtils.setPropertyValue("test-step-target", "Endpoint", location.toString())
    
### Extract header from previous response and assert value

    //Find the 'Location' header of the response
    def location = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["test-step-name"].testRequest.response.responseHeaders["Location"][0]
    assert location.startsWith('value-to-assert');

### Extract header from current response

    // Find the 'Location' header of the response
    assert messageExchange.responseHeaders["Location"] != null

    def location = messageExchange.responseHeaders["Location"][0]

    // Check if all expected parameters are included in the redirect_uri
    assert(location.contains("client_id"));

### Access message body of current test step

    def bodyAsString = new String().valueOf(messageExchange.responseContent)
